>>[GONG RINGS]
>>When I was a boy
in London, I used
to love to visit
the British Museum.
And in the neighborhood
of the museum,
there were a number of
old shops-- some of them,
I think, dating from the
end of the 18th century.
And on the inscription
over the shop window,
it said they sold
"philosophical instruments."
And I couldn't
for the life of me
make out what "philosophical
instruments" could
be because I thought
philosophers were people who
simply sat thinking
and wouldn't have
any need for any
special instruments.
But when I went
up to these shops,
I found that what
they had in the window
were telescopes, slide
rules, chronometers,
and all sorts of what we would
now call scientific instruments
because, you see, the
original name for science
was "natural philosophy" because
a philosopher is a person who
is curious about everything.
He's not only curious
about theoretical matters,
but he's also curious
about what we should now
call "practical matters."
And I regard myself
as a philosopher
in exactly that
sense because aside
from being interested in
changed states of consciousness,
in problems of death,
problems of time and space,
in the practice
of meditation, I'm
also interested in what you
would call down-to-earth things
such as food, clothing,
housing, problems of ecology
and population because all this
is part of natural curiosity
or philosophy.
Well, now today, I want to begin
with the subject of clothing.
You see me now arrayed
in what has become
the standard,
official man's dress
for the whole world--
the business suit.
Derived from England,
popularized by the Americans,
adopted by the Japanese, the
Indonesians, the Indians,
the Persians, the
Arabs-- everybody
on the face of the
Earth is now tending
to go around dressed like this,
in a peculiar form of clothing
which derives from
military uniforms
because you will notice that
it has buttons on the sleeve.
Now, what do you
suppose those are for?
No, they don't
fasten to anything.
Originally, though,
on the uniforms
from which these
coats are derived,
there were a whole row of
buttons all the way up.
And they were on military
uniforms or uniforms
worn by servitors
to prevent them
from wiping their
noses on their sleeves.
And then it has
these curious lapels.
And goodness knows what
purpose these serve.
Now, sometimes,
people turn them up
to try and protect
themselves from rain,
but they're not
really very effective.
And then you have to wear
this extraordinary shirt which
is extremely difficult to
fold up if you've tried,
and you're not an
expert laundress.
And you have to strangle
yourself with a necktie.
Also, you have to wear pants,
British trousers, which
is the most devastating
garment for men.
Trousers are worn
by Chinese women.
Chinese men, in the old times
before the era of Mao Zedong,
wore skirts because
trousers are a garment
suitable for shapely women.
They are not at all
suitable for men
because they're castrative
and extremely uncomfortable,
especially if you want
to sit on the floor.
To wear a business suit
and be comfortable,
you invariably have
to sit on a chair
because if you don't, your
trousers will become baggy
at the knees.
And a coat, as you know, when
you try to put it in a suitcase
is very difficult to fold.
And the problem of the
business suit coat is this.
That it's made to fit the
contours of the human body.
You see, it has to be tailored
so that it fits you here
and it fits you here and
it fits across your back.
And all this requires
a very complex process
so that it will snugly
fit around you like this
and show up your form, which
is all very well if you have
a slim form and you haven't
begun, in later age,
to develop a protuberance
here as we naturally do.
And then, of course, also, how
about keeping these trousers
suspended?
I still can wear a belt.
But the time is
going to come when
I'm going to have to
wear suspenders, which
is a kind of block-and-tackle
contraption underneath here,
which is another and
further inconvenience.
But it just does astonish me
that all over the world, men
are putting up with this drab,
futerial-- funereal uniform,
looking like undertakers and
ministers, when they could
be much more comfortable
so that I could be just
as respectable, just as proper,
just as demure, and instead
of this, come on
like this, which
is the Japanese kimono as worn
not so much in modern times as
50 years ago by all
Japanese gentleman.
Now, this is one of the
most extraordinary garments
ever made.
To begin with, it's
completely comfortable.
You feel absolutely
relaxed underneath it.
Nothing is restricting
you anywhere.
And it has these tremendously
capacious sleeves
which are immense
pockets into which you
can put anything you want.
I mean, you know, you can
put your wallet in there
and a pipe and tobacco and
cigarettes and money-- anything
you want.
You, also, can put
things in here.
And then it's quite proper
for you to carry a fan.
And when the weather is too hot,
you can just cool yourself off.
And this outward
garment, here, is a coat
for cooler weather or for
rather proper occasions
when you should be wearing it.
It's called a haori.
You could take the haori off
and just wear what's underneath.
And you see, more or
less, the same thing as
before with the big sleeves
and the enormous pockets.
And I want you to notice a
peculiar thing about a kimono.
And we can show
it from the haori.
And that is, that
it's entirely cut
from rectangular
pieces of cloth.
You see?
The cloth has not been
shaped to fit the human body.
Cloth is naturally
rectangular because of its
being woven material with
a perpendicular worf--
warp and a horizontal woof.
And so cloth, of its own
accord, comes out in rectangles.
Now, in designing
this form of clothes,
we do not alter the rectangular
nature of the cloth.
We do not attempt to
shape it in any other way
so as to force it to fit the
curves of the human body.
But if we honor the nature
of cloth in that way
and respect its nature,
curiously enough,
it respects our nature because,
if you hang rectangular cloth
upon you, it falls
and folds which
give you a kind of
natural dignity.
When you shape the
cloth to you, you
begin to look more and
more like a monkey.
But when you allow the
cloth to hang upon you
and follow its own nature,
you look more and more
like a prince.
So this is the essential
principle of Japanese clothing.
Now, the Japanese,
as I said, have
been abandoning this clothing.
And I asked one of them, why?
Well, the first
thing he said is,
it's impossible to run
for a bus in a kimono.
And that's perfectly true.
You cannot run in this garment.
You have to walk at
a dignified pace.
And I think that's
very good for us.
I don't think any
self-respecting person should
ever run for a bus.
That we need, above all things,
to slow down and get ourselves
to amble through life instead
of to rush through it.
And therefore, I consider
that this garment, commonly
worn by men, would have an
enormously beneficent effect
on American civilization.
We should be much more
comfortable, much more at ease,
much more dignified.
I wear one all the time--
not quite as formal as this,
but I always wear a
kimono around my home.
And next, I'm going to show
you the exact style of kimono
that I would wear for normal
purposes of relaxation.
And that is called the yukata.
It is a cotton kimono which
the Japanese businessman, who
would have worn the clothes
that I was just showing you,
would don.
When he gets home, he
takes a very hot bath
in an enormous tub where
practically all the family can
sit together.
It's a wonderful institution.
That's the first thing you do
when you get back from work.
You don't wash inside the tub.
You wash outside the
tub by taking a bucket
and sloshing yourself
with water from the tub.
And then you soap
yourself and rinse off.
Then you go and sit in the bath.
And the steam rises
all around you.
And you smoke cigarettes and
chat with all the family.
And that's the greatest
kind of bath in the world.
And then back you get,
afterwards, into your yukata.
And in this, it is
perfectly permissible
to go out strolling in the
streets in the evening.
This, of course, is a warm
weather yukata made of cotton.
There is a cold weather
yukata, which is different.
It's called a tanzen.
And it's made, very often,
of silk and is padded.
But this light garment has
exactly the same principles
as the other kimono I
showed you because it
has still the same big
pocket sleeves and still
the possibility of sticking
things inside here.
Now then, also, you
can wear it, too,
with the same sash that
you wear with a kimono.
This is called an obi.
There are men's
obi, which are made
with tie-dye
ornamentations on the end.
And women's obi, which
are much more stiff,
are made of very,
very heavy silk.
And they're not nearly
as comfortable to wear.
But again, you see, this is an
absolutely, perfectly relaxed
dress for men.
And I myself, since I'm a writer
and do most of my work at home,
I wear one of these
almost all of the time
because it is not
constricting and because
of the extreme convenience
of its pockets.
And if I stand up, I'll show
you how the sash fastens
in a sort of elegant
bow at the back.
And you may think that
that, along with the absence
of pants, is a little
bit effeminate.
But you know, men,
especially in America
and I will say this
also to men in England,
they're terribly uptight
about coming on in a way
that they suppose
to be feminine.
They say skirts are for
women-- sissy stuff.
But you know, if you
are biologically male,
you don't need to
prove that you are.
It's so strange to me how
an enormous number of men
don't seem to be able to
realize that they're men
unless they can, in some way
or through some sort of medium,
go vrrroom!
And come on with tremendous
energy-- very strong, see,
that shows I'm a man.
But if you're a real man, you
don't need to show that at all.
All you need to do to find
out whether you're a real man
is ask a woman.
Now, here's something
else altogether.
This is the ancient Greek
chlamys, C-H-L-A-M-Y-S.
A long linen garment that has
come down to us in modern times
through the Roman Catholic
Church in the form of what is
called an alb, which a
priest wears at mass.
Only, he puts it on
over his ordinary suit,
or he takes off the
coat, and he puts
on a long, heavy black garment
called a cassock, which
is a kind of a wretched thing.
Then he puts this extra
suit of clothes over it.
But any sensible priest,
in celebrating mass,
would take off all his clothes
underneath and simply wear
his underpants and his
chlamys, which is his alb.
And then this thing
here is a hood,
which you can pull
up over your head.
And I won't do it now--
it's a bit of a nuisance--
but it just sort of
makes a comfortable thing
around the neck.
It catches the sweat.
It's called an amice--
amicitia in Latin.
But this is what men
in our Western world
commonly wore back in
about, I should say, 400 BC
and onwards in Greece.
They wore the toga in Rome,
which was a somewhat more
inconvenient garment because
you had to throw it over you.
And all those things were always
dropping down and falling off.
But this is
extremely comfortable
and very convenient.
Now, along with the amys,
a priest of the Catholic
Chur-- along with the
alb or the chlamys,
a priest of the Catholic
Church, when celebrating mass,
will wear over this a
garment called a chasuble
in English, casula in Latin.
And the word "casula"
means a little house;
or in other words, a tent.
That is to say, a
poncho, a garment
which you could tie to
a pole, spread it out,
put stones on it, and rest
under it during the night
and keep the rain off you.
So it's a casula,
a little house.
But now, you can make
a poncho by taking
simply a perfectly
square a piece of cloth.
All you have to
do is hem it-- you
don't have to fit it in any
way-- and cut a slit in it,
like that.
You see?
And then you have a
casula, a little tent.
And I can get into
it, like that.
And we pull this outside.
And you see, without any
tailoring or fitting,
you at once have a really very
dignified and becoming garment.
And these things
are of enormous use.
You can wear them with anything.
They keep you beautifully warm,
especially if you make them out
of some heavy material.
This one happens to be
made out of camel's hair.
And actually, once when I wore
this, I was stopped in a bar
by an Irishman who said,
where have I seen that before?
Well, I said, you saw a priest
wearing it at mass, [CHUCKLES]
which he thought was very funny.
But this is the
essential poncho.
And it gives, again, a great
freedom of movement, your hands
are free, and it's very warm.
And you can wear it over such
loose-fitting clothes as these
and be extremely
comfortable, not castrated,
and at your ease.
Now, of all the
outlandish garments
which I have shown you,
the most outlandish
is the Philippine sarong.
My Japanese friends of modern
times objecting to the kimono
said, well, you can't run for
a bus in a kimono, all right.
You could sure run for a
bus in a Philippine sarong
because it gives you complete
freedom of your legs.
Get them right up, either
way because, you see,
it's essentially a divided
skirt, very floppy,
made of cotton.
And it wraps around your waist.
And you tuck it in.
And you can secure
it with a safety pin.
And over it, you simply
wear a colorful shirt.
I don't know whether
this matches very good;
but at any rate, one just
sees how many different jazzy
things you could put together.
But this, the sarong
with variations,
is worn all over South Asia.
But this particular Philippine
design with the divide
is the most comfortable,
the most elastic
that I've ever discovered.
And I do not know any more
comfortable form of dress
in the world than this.
Now, the thing is, you can
make it of any material.
You could make this same
thing out of heavier material,
say, out of worsted,
out of silk,
in order to be warm
in cold weather
and have a completely
comfortable and, I think,
reasonably dignified
form of clothing.
Well, now, what is
the problem with us?
What's the problem with Western
man and even Western woman
that they dress so
damned uncomfortably?
I've thought about
this a great deal
because it comes down to
some pretty fundamental
philosophical matters.
And I've discovered
that one of them
is this-- that when people
get up in the morning,
they put on a bathrobe.
After a little time goes by,
they feel slightly guilty.
And why do they feel
slightly guilty?
Because when you've got
loose-fitting clothes on,
you may have a slight suspicion
that you don't really exist.
In other words,
you're not strapped
in because all people of action
wear big belts like military,
you know.
Boots, things that
clutch you tightly.
And then you feel because of
the pressure upon your skin,
you're really there.
Now, this is a very
serious mistake, especially
for soldiers.
I maintain that the German army
lost two world wars because
of the goose step, because
of military pomp and swagger,
because of such things as brass
bands and close order drill,
because a really
effective army should
be invisible and inaudible.
But you cannot get men who
are on the machismo kick,
who have to prove
that they are men,
to be invisible and inaudible.
But a truly effective army,
an army of guerrillas,
should dress with complete
comfort, complete practicality,
and no kind of tying
themselves together in knots
so that the pressure
on you will assure you
that you're there
because, after all, that's
like sleeping on a bed of nails.
But a great many
people in our culture
don't feel that they are really
alive unless, in some way,
they are uncomfortable
or suffering.
And the reason for
that is that we
have a profound built-in sense
of guilt about our existence.
You see, we have
a profound sense
of guilt about our
existence because we
feel that we don't really
belong to the universe.
There was a wonderful story
about a Japanese mystic,
a kind of wandering
holy man who, one night,
stopped in a Buddhist
temple for shelter.
And he went up to
the high altar.
And there were all
these kneeling cushions
which the priests use for
celebrating the service.
And he arranged them all
and made a comfortable bed
and went to sleep.
And early in the
morning, the priest
came in to celebrate the
early morning service
and saw this apparent bum lying
on all the cushions in front
of the altar.
He said, What are doing here?
Such disrespectful conduct
in front of the altar!"
And the holy man looked up
at him and said, "Oh, so?
You must be stranger here.
You cannot belong
to the family."
And so likewise, in
an Italian church,
little children are running
around, in and out of the pews,
ducking back and forth, while
their mother was offering
candles at the shrine
of St. Anthony.
And two American
spinsters from New England
were viewing the
church and were very
shocked at the way these
children were playing and went
over and touched the
mother on her shoulder
and said, "Don't you think these
children should be controlled?"
"Well," she said, "it
is their father's house.
Can't they pray here?
Can't they play here?"
See I made a very interesting
slip of the tongue.
[CHUCKLES]
But that's a most
curious things, isn't it?
You see, our clothing, as
I said at the beginning
in exhibiting the business
suit, is undertaker clothing,
ministerial clothing, military
clothing-- for all those things
which in our culture we
cultivate an uptight attitude.
[GRUNTS] Hold yourself in.
Restrain yourself,
[GRUNTS] like this.
But in doing this, you see,
we are constantly at war
with ourselves.
It is as if you were
moving your arm,
and you want to move your
arm very strongly in one way,
all right, you go like that.
You immediately
tighten the bicep.
And that would be the
natural thing to do.
In lifting something heavy, you
immediately tighten the bicep,
and up it comes.
But supposing you tighten the
tricep at the same time, which
is the muscle here on the
back, then you get this.
You're fighting
with yourself, see?
And although this
movement may look, oh,
very tough and strong,
it isn't at all
because you're fighting with
yourself while you do it.
Now, in this way,
all the time, we
have been taught to
fight with ourselves
because our personalities
have been split.
Our culture tells us that
we are, on the one hand,
a nasty little animal that has
to be controlled and beaten
into submission; and
that on the other hand,
we are a rational soul, which
is the sort of higher self which
is supposed to take
control of the lower self.
And for this reason,
we are always
at cross purposes
with ourselves.
Freud, for example,
distinguished
between the pleasure
principle, which
he located in the
genital region,
and the reality principle,
which he located
in the cortical
region in the brain.
So there's a distance
between these two centers.
This is the pleasure center.
This is the intelligence center.
And because they are
not in the same place,
for some reason or other,
it seems there always
has to be a fight between them.
In a plant, like a flower,
its mind and its sex organ
is the same place.
And so it doesn't
have that conflict.
But in the human
being, they're divided.
And so we think they're
divided, at least,
simply because they
are at a distance
from each other in space.
But they are not
really divided at all.
They look different.
The head looks very
different from the genitals.
But in the same way, bees look
very different from flowers.
One flies freely in
the air and buzzes,
and the other is
rooted to the ground
and colorfully perfumes
the environment,
so the bee is attracted to it.
But the thing is that these two
very different-looking things
are, in fact, one
single organism
because if there are no
bees, there are no flowers.
And if there are no
flowers, there are no bees.
They come together as the
Chinese have a phrase,
"to arise mutually."
So in the same way,
when you were born,
your head and your feet,
your head and your genitals
arose mutually.
They came in together.
They are not really
separate from each other.
And therefore, this
idea that discipline,
that living an
ordered life consists
in controlling yourself.
That is to say, by
having one self that
needs to be controlled and
another part of yourself,
which is the controlling
one, is nothing
but creating a conflict and a
disturbance inside yourself.
You have to get with yourself
in order to control yourself.
In other words, if I
want to open my hand,
it opens like that.
I don't know how it does it,
but it just does it like that.
But if it were necessary for
me to open my hand to do this,
you see?
And then when I had to
pick up something like,
well, here's a cigar
and I need to pick it up
with my right hand,
so I have to do this.
I mean, wouldn't that be absurd?
But that's what we are
doing all the time when
we divide ourselves into
two parts-- the spiritual
and the material, the
angelic and rational,
and the animal or irrational.
And so constantly, we're
holding clubs over ourselves.
And that is one of the
reasons, therefore,
why when you get
up in the morning
and you put on your bathrobe
and you feel at ease,
that after a while, you begin
to feel guilty because you feel
you should be, as we say,
dressed and in your right mind
so that you can go out
and be a person of action.
You can go to the office
and feel that there it is.
Now, that's another
thing which makes
the philosopher comment in
connection with clothing
is commuting.
Every day in the urban
areas, millions of people
are absolutely wearing
themselves out,
tearing their nerves
to distraction
by going along the
freeways in a car,
fouling the atmosphere
to do their work.
And their work, you
see, is completely
divorced-- something quite
separate from their play.
Now, this is one of the great
insanities of our civilization.
Every sensible person
should get paid for playing.
If you don't get
paid for playing,
something's wrong with you.
You haven't learned
the art of life.
And furthermore, in
most kinds of business,
especially clerical
forms of business
where you need an office
for paperwork and so on,
you don't need an office
if you've got a telephone.
The telephone
company can show you
how to do anything
in the world you
want to do by way
of business by phone
so that you can cut down the
enormous amount of time wasted
in rushing around, commuting.
You can stay at home and
do you work from there.
But we have got
this idea that work
is one thing and
play is another.
Therefore, we have work clothes.
And the business suit is not a
practical form of work clothes.
And we have play clothes.
And I suggest, and we will
develop this in future talks,
that one of the most
important things
is to get our heads
together with our genitals,
our genitals together our
heads, and our work together
with our play, and make
our life unified and one.
>>[DRUMMING]